-: Welcome back.
In this section, we are going to install the ExternalDNS.
So before going and installing the ExternalDNS
or understanding what all components involved
from ExternalDNS perspective,
let's understand why do we need this ExternalDNS.
In previous SSL demo section
we added AWS Route 53 DNS records manually.
So we went into the Route 53 service inside hosted zones
for that respective domain stack simplified dot com,
we have added a DNS record
SSL demo 101 dot stack simplified dot com.
But with ExternalDNS, we can automatically add it
for a Kubernetes ingress service
or a Kubernetes service by defining it as a annotation.
So if we add this annotation ExternalDNS
dot all four dot Kubernetes dot io slash host name
and your DNS name, something like DNS test 2901
or DNS dot,
DNS abc dot R,
my application dot stack simplified dot com
So if you add these things, then automatically
those records will be added in the AWS Route 53 service
inside the hosted zone as a DNS record.
And in addition to that, you can create, update, delete
these DNS records from ExternalDNS itself.
So let's see what all components involved in the
ExternalDNS related
controller.
So in AWS cloud, we already have the EKS cluster created.
So for ExternalDNS, in the default name space,
we are going to create a ExternalDNS service account.
And this service account, right, will be associated
with the IM role.
So why we need to create this IM role
and what is the things present in the IM policy
about permissions that IM policy is going to have.
So we are going to create a IM policy
wherein in that IM policy, it'll have the permissions
for the AWS Route 53 resource for create, update
and then delete records inside that.
And that IM policy will be associated with this IM role.
And that IM role will be annotated
in this respective service account in Kubernetes
which is nothing but ExternalDNS service account.
And then we will also have the ExternalDNS
related deployments cluster role,
cluster role bindings all related objects
deployed inside this default name space.
So this ExternalDNS deployment will create the
ExternalDNS port for us.
And whenever as a Kubernetes admin,
if we deploy ingress service
or a regular Kubernetes service
with the annotation whatever we have specified
related to ExternalDNS,
so then ExternalDNS goes to the Kubernetes API server
and retrieves a list of resources like
services or ingresses
from the Kubernetes APS server to determine a
desired list of DNS regards that need to be created
or updated or deleted from the AWS Route 53.
So which means this ExternalDNS port will communicate
with this APS server and get a list of the ingress
or regular services and search for the annotation
related to ExternalDNS with the DNS names
and if it finds those DNS names inside those services
are ingress services, so then it'll go ahead
and then create or update or delete
those DNS records in the AWS
Route 53 related service.
So this completes the introductory part of ExternalDNS.
So in our next lecture, we'll go ahead
and then practically implement this demo.
So I'll see you in the next lecture.
Until then, bye bye. Thank you.